<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept_wf2_3sb_lq">
 <title><ph >Processing conrefs</ph></title>
 <shortdesc >When processing content references, DITA processors compare the
  restrictions of each context to ensure that the conrefed content is valid in its new
  context.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>conref<indexterm>processing expectations</indexterm><indexterm>validity
      of</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>generalization<indexterm>conref resolution</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>processing<indexterm>conrefs</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>processing expectations<indexterm>conrefs, validity
      of</indexterm><indexterm>generalization during conref resolution</indexterm></indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <conbody>
  <note>The DITA <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute is a transclusion mechanism similar to XInclude
      and to HyTime value references. DITA differs from these mechanisms, however, in that conref
      validity does not apply simply to the current content at the time of replacement, but to the
      possible resolved content given the restrictions of both the referencing document type and the
      referenced document type.</note>
   <p>When content is reused between two documents with different domains or constraints, it is
      possible for the reused content to include domain extensions that are not defined for the new
      context, or to include elements that would be constrained out of the new context. When pulling
      or pushing content with the conref mechanism, processors resolving conrefs <term
        outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> tolerate specializations of valid elements. Processors
        <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> generalize elements in the pushed or pulled content
      fragment as needed for the resolving context.</p>
  <p>A conref processor <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD NOT</term> permit resolution of a reuse
      relationship that could be rendered invalid under the rules of either the reused or reusing
      content.</p>
    <p>When resolving <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attributes, processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
        >SHOULD</term> issue a warning when a <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> reference cannot be
      resolved and there is no <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute to use as a fallback. Processors
        <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MAY</term> issue a warning when a <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt>
      cannot be resolved to an element and a specified <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> is used as a
      fallback.</p>
    <section id="error-conditions" outputclass="errorcondition">
      <title>Common error conditions related to conref ranges</title>
      <p>When encountering the following error conditions, an implementation can optionally issue an
        error message.</p>
      <table id="table_pbn_czf_scc">
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Condition or Issue</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Result</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">The <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute cannot be resolved in the
                target document (the target element might have been removed or its id has changed). </entry>
              <entry colname="col2">The <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> is ignored.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">The <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> attribute cannot be resolved in
                the target document (the target element might have been removed or its id has
                changed).</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">Range cannot be resolved, optional recovery processes the result
                as a simple conref.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">Start and end elements are not siblings in the target
                document.</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">If the start element exists, optional recovery processes the
                result as a simple conref. </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">End element occurs before the start element in the target
                document.</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">If the start element exists, optional recovery processes the
                result as a simple conref.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry colname="col1">An element has a <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> attribute but is
                missing the <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute.</entry>
              <entry colname="col2">No result.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
