<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="example_conref_target_contains_xref">
  <title>Example: Resolving conrefs to elements that contain cross references</title>
  <shortdesc>In this scenario, elements referenced by conref include cross references using a
    variety of referencing styles.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <p>Consider the following paragraphs in <filepath>paras-01.dita</filepath> that are intended to
      be used by reference from other topics:</p>
    <codeblock>&lt;topic id="paras-01">
    &lt;title>Reusable paragraphs&lt;/title>
    &lt;body>
        &lt;p id="p1">See &lt;xref href="#paras-01/p5"/>.&lt;/p>
        &lt;p id="p2">See &lt;xref href="topic-02.dita#topic02/fig-01"/>.&lt;/p>
        &lt;p id="p3">See &lt;xref href="#./p5"/>.&lt;/p>
        &lt;p id="p4">See &lt;xref keyref="task-remove-cover"/>.&lt;/p>
        &lt;p id="p5">Paragraph 5 in paras-01.&lt;/p>
    &lt;/body>
&lt;/topic></codeblock>
    <p>The paragraphs are used by content reference from other topics, including the
        <filepath>using-topic-01.dita</filepath> topic:</p>
    <codeblock>&lt;topic id="using-topic-01">&lt;title>Using topic one&lt;/title>
    &lt;body>
        &lt;p id="A" conref="paras-01.dita#paras-01/p1"/> 
        &lt;p id="B" conref="paras-01.dita#paras-01/p2"/> 
        &lt;p id="C" conref="paras-01.dita#paras-01/p3"/>
        &lt;p id="D" conref="paras-01.dita#paras-01/p4"/>
        &lt;p id="p5">Paragraph 5 in using-topic-01&lt;/p>  
    &lt;/body>
&lt;/topic></codeblock>
    <p>Processors must consider different contexts when resolving <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement>
      references within the referenced paragraphs. The rendered cross references in
        <filepath>using-topic-01.dita</filepath> are shown in the following table.</p>
    <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0* 2.0* 3.0*" id="simpletable_pbc_f3g_scc">
      <sthead>
        <stentry>Paragraph</stentry>
        <stentry>Value of <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute on conrefed paragraph</stentry>
        <stentry><xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> within conrefed paragraph</stentry>
        <stentry>Resolution</stentry>
      </sthead>
      <strow>
        <stentry>A</stentry>
        <stentry>p1</stentry>
        <stentry><codeph>&lt;xref href="#paras-01/p5"/></codeph></stentry>
        <stentry>The cross reference in paragraph p1 is a direct URI reference that does not contain
          a same-topic fragment identifier. It can be resolved only to paragraph p5 in
            <filepath>paras-01.dita</filepath>, which contains the content "Paragraph 5 in
          paras-01".</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>B</stentry>
        <stentry>p2</stentry>
        <stentry><codeph>&lt;xref href="topic-02.dita#topic02/fig-01"/></codeph></stentry>
        <stentry>The cross reference in paragraph p2 is a direct URI reference. It can be resolved
          only to the element with <codeph>id="fig-01"</codeph> in
            <filepath>topic-02.dita</filepath>.</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>C</stentry>
        <stentry>p3</stentry>
        <stentry><codeph>&lt;xref href="#./p5"/></codeph></stentry>
        <stentry>
          <p>The cross reference in paragraph p3 is a direct URI reference that contains a
            same-topic fragment identifier. Because the URI reference contains a same-topic fragment
            identifier, the reference is resolved in the context of the referencing topic
              (<filepath>using-topic-01.dita</filepath>). </p>
          <p>If <filepath>using-topic-01.dita</filepath> did not contain an element with
              <codeph>id="p5"</codeph>, then the conref to paragraph p3 would result in a link
            resolution failure.</p>
        </stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>D</stentry>
        <stentry>p4</stentry>
        <stentry><codeph>&lt;xref keyref="task-remove-cover"/></codeph></stentry>
        <stentry>The cross reference in paragraph p4 is a key reference. It is resolved to whatever
          resource is bound to the key name "task-remove-cover" in the applicable map
          context.</stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>
  </conbody>
</concept>
