<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="handling-xref-and-conref-within-topics" >
 <title><ph >Processing</ph> xrefs and conrefs within a conref</title>
 <shortdesc>When referenced content contains a content reference or cross reference, the effective
    target of the reference depends on the form of address that is used in the referenced content.
    It also might depend on the map context, especially when key scopes are present.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>addressing mechanisms<indexterm>effect on conref
            resolution</indexterm><indexterm>same-topic fragment identifier<indexterm>authoring
              responsibility</indexterm><indexterm>effect on conref
            resolution</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>conref<indexterm>xrefs and conref within a conref</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>cross-references<indexterm>resolving within conrefs</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>examples<indexterm>processing<indexterm>xrefs and conref within a
              conref</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>key reference<indexterm>conref resolution, effect on</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>key scopes<indexterm>conref resolution, effect on</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>processing<indexterm>examples<indexterm>xrefs and conref within a
              conref</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>xrefs and conref within a
          conref</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>processing expectations<indexterm>xrefs and conref within a
          conref</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>same-topic fragment identifier<indexterm>authoring
            responsibility</indexterm><indexterm>effect on conref resolution</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
 <conbody>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Direct URI reference (but not a same-topic fragment identifier )</dt>
        <dd>When the address is a direct URI reference of any form other than a same-topic fragment
          identifier, processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> resolve it relative to the
          source document that contains the original URI reference.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Same-topic fragment identifier</dt>
        <dd>When the address is a same-topic fragment identifier, processors <term
            outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> resolve it relative to the location
          of the content reference (referencing context). </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Key reference</dt>
        <dd>When the address is a key reference, processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
            >MUST</term> resolve it relative to the location of the content
          reference (referencing context). </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <p >When resolving key references or same-topic fragment identifiers, the phrase
        <term>location of the content reference</term> means the final resolved context. For
      example, in a case where content references are chained (topic A pulls from topic B, which in
      turn pulls a reference from topic C), the reference is resolved relative to the topic that is
      rendered. When topic B is rendered, the reference is resolved relative to the content
      reference in topic B; when topic A is rendered, the reference is resolved relative to topic A.
        <ph >If content is pushed from topic A to topic B to topic C, then the
        same-topic fragment identifier is resolved in the context of topic C.</ph></p>
    <p >The implication is that a content reference or cross reference can resolve to
      different targets in different use contexts. This is because a URI reference that contains a
      same-topic fragment identifier is resolved in the context of the topic that contains the
      content reference, and a key reference is resolved in the context of the key scope that is in
      effect for each use of the topic that contains the content reference. </p>
    <note>In the case of same-topic fragment identifiers, the author of the content reference needs
      to ensure that any element IDs that are specified in same-topic fragment identifiers in the
      referenced content will also be available in the referencing topic at resolution time.</note>
 </conbody>
</concept>
