<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="id" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title><xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute</title>
  <shortdesc>The <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute assigns an identifier to DITA elements so that the
    elements can be referenced.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <p>The <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute is available for most elements. An element must have a
      valid value for the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute  before it can be referenced using a
      fragment identifier. The requirements for the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute differ depending
      on whether it is used on a topic element, a map element, or an element within a topic or
      map.</p>
    <p>All values for the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute must be XML name tokens.</p>
    <p>The <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attributes for <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> and
        <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> elements are declared as XML attribute type ID; therefore, they
      must be unique with respect to other XML IDs within the XML document that contains the topic
      or map element. The <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute for most other elements within topics and
      maps is not declared to be XML ID; this means that XML parsers do not require that the values
      of those <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attributes be unique. However, the DITA specification requires
      that all IDs be unique within the context of a topic. For this reason, tools might provide an
      additional layer of validation to flag violations of this rule.</p>
    <p>Within documents that contain multiple topics, identifiers are scoped to the individual
      topic, excluding child topics. The values of the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute for all
      non-topic elements only need to be unique within that topic. For example, within one document
      a section can have the same <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> as another section as long as the two are in
      different topics. This is true even if one of those topics is nested within the other; the
      scope is determined by the closest topic element within the document hierarchy.</p>
    <p>Within a map document, the values of the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attributes for all elements
        <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> be unique. When two elements
      within a map have the same value for the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute, processors <term
        outputclass="RFC-2119">MUST</term> resolve references to that ID to the
      first element with the given ID value in document order.</p>
    <fig>
      <title>Summary of requirements for the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute</title>
      <simpletable frame="all">
        <sthead>
          <stentry>Element</stentry>
          <stentry>XML attribute type for <xmlatt>id</xmlatt></stentry>
          <stentry>Must be unique within</stentry>
          <stentry>Required?</stentry>
         
        </sthead>
        <strow>
          <stentry><xmlelement>map</xmlelement></stentry>
          <stentry>ID</stentry>
          <stentry>document</stentry>
          <stentry>No</stentry>
          
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry><xmlelement>topic</xmlelement></stentry>
          <stentry>ID</stentry>
          <stentry>document</stentry>
          <stentry>Yes</stentry>
          
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>sub-map (elements nested within a map)</stentry>
          <stentry>NMTOKEN</stentry>
          <stentry>document</stentry>
          <stentry>Usually no, with some exceptions</stentry>
         
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>sub-topic (elements nested within a topic)</stentry>
          <stentry>NMTOKEN</stentry>
          <stentry>individual topic</stentry>
          <stentry>Usually no, with some exceptions</stentry>
         
        </strow>
      </simpletable>
    </fig>
    <note>For tools that automatically assign <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attributes to elements, it is
      important to recognize that the presence or absence of an <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute on the
        <xmlelement>fn</xmlelement> element will affect how the element is processed. For most other
      elements, the presence of a value for the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute has no impact on
      processing.</note>
  </conbody>
</concept>
