<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="index-ranges">
    <title>Index ranges</title>
    <shortdesc>Authors can use the <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> and
      <xmlatt>end</xmlatt> attributes on <ph rev="review-dave-alvin">a pair
      of</ph>
    <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements to index <ph
      rev="review-chenier">an extended discussion</ph>. <ph
      rev="review-chenier">The generated index entry reflects the span
      between the two <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements</ph>. </shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>indexes<indexterm>ranges</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>processing
                        expectations<indexterm>indexing<indexterm>ranges</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>The start of an index range is indicated by an
        <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> with a <xmlatt>start</xmlatt>
      attribute. <ph rev="review-1">This is called a <term
          rev="review-chenier">start-of-range element</term>.</ph></p>
    <p>The end of an index range is indicated by an
        <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element with an
        <xmlatt>end</xmlatt> attribute with a value that matches the
        <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> attribute on the start element. <ph
        rev="review-1">This is called an <term rev="review-chenier"
          >end-of-range element</term>.</ph>
      <ph rev="review-dave-alvin">End-of-range element should contain no
        content or nested elements.</ph>
    </p>
    <p rev="review-dave-alvin">The start-of-range and end-of-range elements
      must be leaf <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements. If part of
      a multilevel index entry, the start-of-range and end-of-range
      elements must be at the same level of the hierarchy.</p>
        <p rev="review-chenier">The location of the
        <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements determines how the <ph
        rev="review-dave-alvin">range</ph> is defined:</p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Topic body</dt>
                <dd rev="review-chenier">The start-of-range and end-of-range elements are in the
          body of the same DITA topic. The range is defined as between two point references in the
          DITA topic. If an end-of-range element does not exist within the same topic body, the
          start-of-range element is treated as a point reference rather than as the start of a
          range.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>Topic prolog</dt>
                <dd rev="review-chenier">The start-of-range and end-of-range elements are in the
          prolog of the same DITA topic. The range is defined as being between the title of the DITA
          topic and the end of the last nested topic. If an end-of-range element does not exist
          within the topic prolog, the start-of-range element is treated as a point reference rather
          than as the start of a range.</dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>DITA map</dt>
                <dd rev="review-chenier">The start-of-range and end-of-range elements are contained
          within topic references in the same DITA map. If an end-of-range element does not exist
          within the same map, the start-of-range element is treated as a point reference rather
          than as the start of a range.</dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <p>Processors that support index ranges <term outputclass="RFC-2119">SHOULD</term> do the following:<ul>
                <li>Match <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>end</xmlatt>
          attributes by a character-by-character comparison with all
          characters significant and no case folding occurring.</li>
                <li>Ignore <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>end</xmlatt> attributes if they occur
                    on an <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element that has child
                        <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements.</li>
        <li>Handle an end-of-range <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement>
          element that is nested within one or more
            <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements. The end-of-range
            <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element should have no
          content of its own; if it contains content, that content is
            ignored.<draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein">
            <p>Can we improve the phrasing of the two above list items?
              Robert and I think that they were authored in order to
              communicate that if you want a range to be specified for a
              secondary entry, it has to be done like this:</p>
            <codeblock>&lt;indexterm>Potato
  &lt;indexterm start="yellow">Yellow potatoes&lt;/indexterm>
&lt;/indexterm>

&lt;indexterm>Potato
  &lt;indexterm end="yellow"/>
&lt;indexterm></codeblock>
          </draft-comment></li>
                <li>When index ranges with the same identifier overlap, <ph
            rev="review-1">the effective range is determined by matching
            the earliest <ph rev="review-chenier">start-of-range</ph>
            element from the set of overlapping ranges with the latest <ph
              rev="review-chenier">end-of-range element</ph> from the set
            of overlapping ranges.</ph></li>
        <li rev="review-chenier">An unmatched start-of-range element is
          treated as a simple
          <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement>element.</li>
                <li>Ignore unmatched end-of-range <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements.</li>
            </ul></p>
        <!--<draft-comment author="Kristen J Eberlein" time="13 August 2019"><p>Stan Doherty raised the following question in his review of the indexing content:</p><p><q>Can I overload @start or @end with multiple values? &lt;indexterm start="range1 range2">term&lt;/indexterm>. Multiple ranges may have the same begin or end points</q></p><p>I responded <q>… it seems insane to specify multiple values for @start and @end attributes. Do you see use cases for this?</q></p><p>Eliot chimed in: <q>The spec seems clear that the @start and @end attributes are just strings that are matched, not sequences of tokens.</q></p><p>From the <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> topic in the DITA 1.1-1.3 specs: <q>The start and end attributes are defined as CDATA, though it is recommended that the values should not contain any whitespace characters (e.g., space or tab) or control characters. Matching of start and end attributes is done as a character-by-character comparison with all characters significant and no case folding occurring. The start and end attributes are ignored if they occur on an indexterm element that has child indexterm elements.</q></p></draft-comment>-->
    <!--<p rev="review-1">The <xmlatt>start</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>end</xmlatt> attributes are defined as CDATA. However, we recommend that authors do not include whitespace characters (spaces or tabs) or control characters in values for these attributes.</p>-->
    </conbody>
</concept>
