<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="indexoverview">
  <title>Index overview</title>
  <shortdesc>DITA provides several elements to enable indexing. Whether and
    how an index is rendered will vary based on implementation decisions
    and rendering formats.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>Here are some definitions:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>An <term>index</term> is a mapping from
          <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> elements to locations in the
        DITA content.</li>
      <li>A <term>generated index</term> is a mapping of index terms to
        rendered locations.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>While DITA provides several elements that support indexing, how
      those elements are used will vary by implementation.</p>
    <ul>
      <li>A publishing format like PDF might use a back-of-the-book style
        index with page numbers, which typically involves merging index
        elements and <ph rev="review-dave-alvin">generating</ph> page
        numbers.</li>
      <li>Another publishing format might have no rendered index, but it
        would instead use the content of index elements to help weight
        search results.</li>
      <li>Some implementations might choose to supplement a generated index
        with additional content, such as treating a specialized
          <xmlelement>keyword</xmlelement> element as both normal content
        and an index entry.</li>
      <li>Implementations might have different ways to render indexing edge
        cases, based on either implementation capabilities or style
        preferences.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>While DITA defines markup for indexing and specifies exactly the
      point to which an <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> refers, it
      cannot force DITA documents to use consistent patterns that work for
      all formats. Implementations <ph rev="review-dave-alvin">should
        consider edge cases and how to treat them.</ph></p>
    <p>The following list includes some of the conditions that
      implementations might want to be aware of when considering how to
      generate an index:<ul>
        <li>Index processors typically ignore leading <ph
            rev="review-dave-alvin">and</ph> trailing whitespace
          characters.</li>
        <li>Processors might want to treat two entries separately if they
          are defined with different <ph rev="review-dave-alvin"
            >capitalization</ph>.</li>
        <li>Processors need to determine how to handle nested markup, such
          as an <xmlelement>keyword</xmlelement>
          <ph rev="review-dave-alvin">element that is located within an
              <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element.</ph></li>
        <li>Because <xmlelement>index-see</xmlelement> is used to refer to
          a term that is used <i>instead of</i> the current entry,
          processors should consider how to handle a case where an index
          term is used both as a page locator and with an
            <xmlelement>index-see</xmlelement>
          <ph rev="review-dave-alvin">element</ph> for redirection.</li>
        <li>Similarly, processors should consider how to handle <ph
            rev="review-dave-alvin">the</ph> case where an index term is
          defined with both an <xmlelement>index-see</xmlelement> and an
            <xmlelement>index-see-also</xmlelement> element.</li>
      </ul></p>
  </body>
</topic>
