<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="theconkeyrefattribute" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>The <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attribute</title>
  <shortdesc>The <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attribute provides an indirect content reference to
    topic elements, map elements, or elements within maps or topics. It allows the referencing
    element to use a key in place of a file name when referencing another topic or map.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>conref attributes<indexterm><xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt></indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
<refbody>
    <section id="section-1">
      <p>When the target of a content reference is an element within a topic or map, the value of
        the <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attribute is a key name, followed by a slash ("/"), followed
        by the ID of the referenced element. The key name must be bound to the topic or map that
        contains the referenced element.</p>
      <p>When the target of a content reference is a topic or map, the value of the
          <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attribute is a key name that directly resolves to that topic or
        map.</p>
      <p>When the key name specified by the <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> attribute is not defined and
        the element also specifies a <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute, the <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>
        attribute is used to determine the referenced element. If no <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>
        attribute is specified there is no content reference relationship. </p>
      <p>The <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> attribute, which defines the end of a conref range, cannot
        include a key. Instead the map or topic element addressed by the key name component of the
          <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt> is used in place of whatever map or topic element is addressed
        by the <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt> attribute. See <xref
          keyref="attributes-conrefend/conkeyref"/> for more information and for examples of this
        behavior.</p>
    </section>
</refbody>
</reference>
